nav2_loopback_sim/README.md, before:

# Nav2 Loopback Simulation

The Nav2 loopback simulator is a stand-alone simulator to create a "loopback" for non-physical simulation to replace robot hardware, physics simulators (Gazebo, Bullet, Isaac Sim, etc). It computes the robot's odometry based on the command velocity's output request to create a perfect 'frictionless plane'-style simulation for unit testing, system testing, R&D on higher level systems, and testing behaviors without concerning yourself with localization accuracy or system dynamics.

This was created by Steve Macenski of [Open Navigation LLC](https://opennav.org) and donated to Nav2 by the support of our project sponsors. If you rely on Nav2, please consider supporting the project!

**⚠️ If you need professional services related to Nav2, please contact [Open Navigation](https://www.opennav.org/) at info@opennav.org.**

It is drop-in replacable with AMR simulators and global localization by providing:
- Map -> Odom transform
- Odom -> Base Link transform, `nav_msgs/Odometry` odometry 
- Accepts the standard `/initialpose` topic for transporting the robot to another location

Note: This does not provide sensor data, so it is required that the global (and probably local) costmap contain the `StaticLayer` to avoid obstacles.

It is convenient to be able to test systems by being able to:
- Arbitrarily transport the robot to any location and accurately navigate without waiting for a particle filter to converge for testing behaviors and reproducing higher-level issues
- Write unit or system tests on areas that are not dependent on low-level controller or localization performance without needing to spin up a compute-heavy process like Gazebo or Isaac Sim to provide odometry and sensor data, such as global planning, autonomy behavior trees, etc
- Perform R&D on various sensitive systems easily without concerning yourself with the errors accumulated with localization performance or imperfect dynamic models to get a proof of concept started
- Simulate N robots simultaneously with a lower compute footprint
- When otherwise highly compute constrained and need to simulate a robotic system

## How to Use

```
ros2 run nav2_loopback_sim loopback_simulator  # As a node, if in simulation
ros2 launch nav2_loopback_sim loopback_simulation.launch.py  # As a launch file
ros2 launch nav2_bringup tb3_loopback_simulation.launch.py  # Nav2 integrated navigation demo using it
ros2 launch nav2_bringup tb4_loopback_simulation.launch.py  # Nav2 integrated navigation demo using it
```

## API

### Parameters

- `update_duration`: the duration between updates (default 0.01 -- 100hz)
- `base_frame_id`: The base frame to use (default `base_link`)
- `odom_frame_id`: The odom frame to use (default `odom`)
- `map_frame_id`: The map frame to use (default `map`)
- `scan_frame_id`: The can frame to use to publish a scan to keep the collision monitor fed and happy (default `base_scan` for TB3, `rplidar_link` for TB4)
- `enable_stamped_cmd_vel`: Whether cmd_vel is stamped or unstamped (i.e. Twist or TwistStamped). Default `false` for `Twist`.

### Topics

This node subscribes to:
- `initialpose`: To set the initial robot pose or relocalization request analog to other localization systems
- `cmd_vel`: Nav2's output twist to get the commanded velocity

This node publishes:
- `odom`: To publish odometry from twist
- `tf`: To publish map->odom and odom->base_link transforms
- `scan`: To publish a bogus max range laser scan sensor to make the collision monitor happy

Commit message:

[loopback_sim] Publish clock, [nav2_costmap_2d] Fix Qos (#4726)
* Publish /clock from loopback sim

Signed-off-by: Adi Vardi <adi.vardi@enway.ai>

* [nav2_costmap_2d] Fix obstacle_layer trying to use RELIABLE QoS

Use QoS profile from rclcpp::SensorDataQoS() instead of rmw_qos_profile_t.
This solves an issue where the subscriber uses RELIABLE setting even when initialized from rmw_qos_profile_sensor_data.
In addition the Subscriber(..., rmw_qos_profile_t) constructor is deprecated in favor of Subscriber(..., rclcpp::QoS)

Signed-off-by: Adi Vardi <adi.vardi@enway.ai>

* [nav2_smac_planner] fix typos

Signed-off-by: Adi Vardi <adi.vardi@enway.ai>

* Use single quotes

Signed-off-by: Adi Vardi <adi.vardi@enway.ai>

---------

Signed-off-by: Adi Vardi <adi.vardi@enway.ai>
Signed-off-by: Tony Najjar <tony.najjar.1997@gmail.com>

nav2_loopback_sim/README.md, after:

# Nav2 Loopback Simulation

The Nav2 loopback simulator is a stand-alone simulator to create a "loopback" for non-physical simulation to replace robot hardware, physics simulators (Gazebo, Bullet, Isaac Sim, etc). It computes the robot's odometry based on the command velocity's output request to create a perfect 'frictionless plane'-style simulation for unit testing, system testing, R&D on higher level systems, and testing behaviors without concerning yourself with localization accuracy or system dynamics.

This was created by Steve Macenski of [Open Navigation LLC](https://opennav.org) and donated to Nav2 by the support of our project sponsors. If you rely on Nav2, please consider supporting the project!

**⚠️ If you need professional services related to Nav2, please contact [Open Navigation](https://www.opennav.org/) at info@opennav.org.**

It is drop-in replacable with AMR simulators and global localization by providing:
- Map -> Odom transform
- Odom -> Base Link transform, `nav_msgs/Odometry` odometry
- Accepts the standard `/initialpose` topic for transporting the robot to another location

Note: This does not provide sensor data, so it is required that the global (and probably local) costmap contain the `StaticLayer` to avoid obstacles.

It is convenient to be able to test systems by being able to:
- Arbitrarily transport the robot to any location and accurately navigate without waiting for a particle filter to converge for testing behaviors and reproducing higher-level issues
- Write unit or system tests on areas that are not dependent on low-level controller or localization performance without needing to spin up a compute-heavy process like Gazebo or Isaac Sim to provide odometry and sensor data, such as global planning, autonomy behavior trees, etc
- Perform R&D on various sensitive systems easily without concerning yourself with the errors accumulated with localization performance or imperfect dynamic models to get a proof of concept started
- Simulate N robots simultaneously with a lower compute footprint
- When otherwise highly compute constrained and need to simulate a robotic system

## How to Use

```
ros2 run nav2_loopback_sim loopback_simulator  # As a node, if in simulation
ros2 launch nav2_loopback_sim loopback_simulation.launch.py  # As a launch file
ros2 launch nav2_bringup tb3_loopback_simulation.launch.py  # Nav2 integrated navigation demo using it
ros2 launch nav2_bringup tb4_loopback_simulation.launch.py  # Nav2 integrated navigation demo using it
```

## API

### Parameters

- `update_duration`: The duration between updates (default 0.01 -- 100hz)
- `base_frame_id`: The base frame to use (default `base_link`)
- `odom_frame_id`: The odom frame to use (default `odom`)
- `map_frame_id`: The map frame to use (default `map`)
- `scan_frame_id`: The can frame to use to publish a scan to keep the collision monitor fed and happy (default `base_scan` for TB3, `rplidar_link` for TB4)
- `enable_stamped_cmd_vel`: Whether cmd_vel is stamped or unstamped (i.e. Twist or TwistStamped). Default `false` for `Twist`.
- `scan_publish_dur`: : The duration between publishing scan (default 0.1s -- 10hz)
- `publish_map_odom_tf`: Whether or not to publish tf from `map_frame_id` to `odom_frame_id` (default `true`)
- `publish_clock`: Whether or not to publish simulated clock to `/clock` (default `true`)

### Topics

This node subscribes to:
- `initialpose`: To set the initial robot pose or relocalization request analog to other localization systems
- `cmd_vel`: Nav2's output twist to get the commanded velocity

This node publishes:
- `clock`: To publish a simulation clock for all other nodes with `use_sim_time=True`
- `odom`: To publish odometry from twist
- `tf`: To publish map->odom and odom->base_link transforms
- `scan`: To publish a range laser scan sensor based on the static map
